---
title: "git"
author: "Marcelo Mora"
date: "2017-01-25"
tag: Git
---

# Git commands


In this blog post will be my first git cheat sheet in order to learn git better.

This assumes you already have a local git repository in your computer

This post is based on this video [link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IpUDlhh8I2E)

## Commands

1. *git  init*  --> link a folder as a repository in github

2. *git status*  --> tells your the status of your folder e.g. which changes have been made, if you are in the master branch, etc.

3. *git add filename*  --> add file to staging area (see the video to understand what stagging area is)

4. *git commit* --> commit or save changes from stagging area to master branch. Note: this command will send you to VIM page. Write the commit message and then press : and in the cursor that appear press x.

5. *git config --global core.editor "nano -w"* --> changes the text editor to nano (so VIM won't appear again)

6. *git commit -m "write message"* --> commit writting message directly. *Note* remember before commit add  file to stagging area 

7. *git log* --> reverse chronological list of all messages you made

     + --oneline --> gives one first digits of each message code

     + log opens an annoying program called less. Press q to exit the program 

8. *git dif* --> differences between two changed versions of a file. Gives first changed version and then current version.     

     + sometimes when files in stagging area have been changed, diff alone won't show changes. Use diff --staged in that case 

	 + HEAD ~number filename.txt --> compares changes between latest change in file and commit number of steps below 
	 
	 + you can also enter the commit code directly
	 
9. *git add .* --> changed all files that were changed

10. git checkout HEAD file.txt --> undo changes to that file before commit, or recover deleted file

     + git checkout master --> brings you back to the master 

11. git reset --hard --> reverse back to last state 

     + git reset HEAD file.txt --> un-add file.txt if was already added

12. .gitignore --> this file has all files or extensions that git will ignore 	 

13. git remote add origin https:github.io/username/repository.git --> add repository as origin

	 + git remote -v  --> see if repository was added succesfully 

14. git push origin master --> send commits from local machine to remote origin master branch 
  
     + git push -u origin master --> sets default to where push changes  

15. git pull origin master -->  pull changes from remote origin to local computer

	 